docs/RUNBOOK.md, before:

# ChainPulse Runbook

> Auto-generated from `package.json` and `.env.example` on 2026-02-11

## Deployment

### Frontend (Vercel)

1. Push to `main` branch triggers auto-deploy
2. Set all env vars from `.env.example` in Vercel dashboard (except `DEPLOYER_PRIVATE_KEY`)
3. Configure cron in `vercel.json`:
   ```json
   { "crons": [{ "path": "/api/cron/analyze", "schedule": "0 */4 * * *" }] }
   ```

### Smart Contract (BSC)

```bash
npx hardhat compile
npx hardhat test                    # verify before deploy
npm run deploy:testnet              # BSC Testnet
```

For mainnet:
```bash
npx hardhat ignition deploy ignition/modules/ChainPulseOracle.ts --network bscMainnet
npx hardhat verify --network bscMainnet <ADDRESS> "<AGENT_ADDRESS>"
```

Update `NEXT_PUBLIC_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` in env after deploy.

### Production Build

```bash
npm run build    # creates .next/ output
npm run start    # serves production build
```

## Monitoring

### Health Checks

| Endpoint | Method | Expected | Check |
|----------|--------|----------|-------|
| `/api/market/overview` | GET | 200 + JSON with `tvl` | DeFiLlama connectivity |
| `/api/market/tokens` | GET | 200 + JSON array | GeckoTerminal connectivity |
| `/api/market/whales` | GET | 200 + JSON with `transfers` | Moralis connectivity |
| `/api/ai/insights` | GET | 200 + JSON with `insights` | Insights data available |
| `/api/chain/predictions` | GET | 200 + JSON | BSC RPC + contract reachable |

### Cron Job (AI Analysis)

Triggered via `GET /api/cron/analyze` with `Authorization: Bearer <CRON_SECRET>`.

Verify cron is running:
```bash
curl -s http://localhost:3000/api/cron/analyze \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CRON_SECRET"
```

Expected: `{"success": true, "insightCount": 3, "txHash": "0x..."}`

### Key Metrics to Watch

- `data/insights.json` file size (grows with each analysis)
- BSC wallet balance (needs tBNB/BNB for gas)
- Moralis CU usage (40k/day free tier)
- GeckoTerminal rate limit (30 req/min)

## Common Issues and Fixes

### Server Won't Start

| Error | Cause | Fix |
|-------|-------|-----|
| `EnvHttpProxyAgent is not a constructor` | Node.js built-in undici missing class | Install `undici` npm package: `npm install undici` |
| `EADDRINUSE: address already in use :::3000` | Port occupied | `lsof -ti:3000 \| xargs kill -9` |
| `MODULE_NOT_FOUND` | Missing deps | `rm -rf node_modules && npm install` |

### API Routes Return Errors

| Error | Cause | Fix |
|-------|-------|-----|
| `fetch failed` on analyze | Proxy misconfigured for localhost | Ensure `NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1` in `.env.local` |
| `fetch failed` on external APIs | Behind proxy without config | Set `HTTPS_PROXY` and `NO_PROXY` in `.env.local` |
| 401 on `/api/ai/analyze` | Wrong CRON_SECRET | Match Bearer token to `.env.local` value |
| 500 on `/api/market/whales` | Invalid Moralis key | Verify `MORALIS_API_KEY` at moralis.io |
| Empty insights | AI analysis never triggered | `POST /api/ai/analyze` with Bearer token |

### Blockchain Issues

| Error | Cause | Fix |
|-------|-------|-----|
| `AGENT_PRIVATE_KEY not set` | Missing env var | Add to `.env.local` |
| `insufficient funds` | Wallet out of BNB | Get tBNB from [faucet](https://www.bnbchain.org/en/testnet-faucet) |
| `execution reverted: Not authorized` | Wrong wallet | Ensure `AGENT_PRIVATE_KEY` matches contract's `agentAddress` |
| Contract reads fail | Wrong contract address | Verify `NEXT_PUBLIC_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` matches deployed contract |

### Proxy Issues (Node.js 24)

Node.js 24's built-in undici does **not** include `EnvHttpProxyAgent`. The project installs `undici` from npm to get proxy support. The `src/instrumentation.ts` file configures the global fetch dispatcher.

If behind a proxy:
```bash
# .env.local
HTTPS_PROXY=http://127.0.0.1:1082
NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1
```

`EnvHttpProxyAgent` respects `NO_PROXY`, so localhost calls (used by the analyze route) bypass the proxy while external API calls go through it.

## Rollback Procedures

### Frontend Rollback (Vercel)

1. Go to Vercel dashboard > Deployments
2. Find the last working deployment
3. Click "..." > "Promote to Production"

### Smart Contract

The contract is immutable once deployed. To "rollback":

1. Deploy a new contract instance
2. Update `NEXT_PUBLIC_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` to the new address
3. Redeploy frontend
4. Old predictions remain on-chain at the old address

### Data Rollback

Insights are stored in `data/insights.json`. To reset:
```bash
rm data/insights.json
# Re-trigger analysis to regenerate
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/ai/analyze \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CRON_SECRET"
```

## Architecture Quick Reference

```
External APIs (DeFiLlama, GeckoTerminal, Moralis)
  -> Next.js API Routes (server, TTL cache)
    -> SWR Hooks (client, refresh intervals)
      -> React Components

POST /api/ai/analyze
  -> Fetch market data from own API routes
  -> Gemini AI generates insights
  -> Write prediction hashes on-chain (ChainPulseOracle)
  -> Save insights to data/insights.json
```

### SWR Refresh Intervals

| Hook | Endpoint | Interval |
|------|----------|----------|
| `useMarketData` | `/api/market/overview` | 60s |
| `useTokens` | `/api/market/tokens` | 120s |
| `useWhaleAlerts` | `/api/market/whales` | 60s |
| `useInsights` | `/api/ai/insights` | 120s |
| `usePredictions` | `/api/chain/predictions` | 120s |

Commit message:

docs: update docs and add codemaps to reflect current project state
Sync CONTRIB.md and RUNBOOK.md with source of truth (design system rename,
Vercel Blob storage, daily cron, missing env vars). Add architecture codemaps
covering backend, frontend, and data models. Update .gitignore and README.

docs/RUNBOOK.md, after:

# ChainPulse Runbook

> Auto-generated from `package.json` and `.env.example` on 2026-02-13

## Deployment

### Frontend (Vercel)

1. Push to `main` branch triggers auto-deploy
2. Set all env vars from `.env.example` in Vercel dashboard (except `DEPLOYER_PRIVATE_KEY`)
3. Configure cron in `vercel.json` (daily, midnight UTC — Hobby plan limit):
   ```json
   { "crons": [{ "path": "/api/cron/analyze", "schedule": "0 0 * * *" }] }
   ```

### Smart Contract (BSC)

```bash
npx hardhat compile
npx hardhat test                    # verify before deploy
npm run deploy:testnet              # BSC Testnet
```

For mainnet:
```bash
npx hardhat ignition deploy ignition/modules/ChainPulseOracle.ts --network bscMainnet
npx hardhat verify --network bscMainnet <ADDRESS> "<AGENT_ADDRESS>"
```

Update `NEXT_PUBLIC_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` in env after deploy.

### Production Build

```bash
npm run build    # creates .next/ output
npm run start    # serves production build
```

## Monitoring

### Health Checks

| Endpoint | Method | Expected | Check |
|----------|--------|----------|-------|
| `/api/market/overview` | GET | 200 + JSON with `tvl` | DeFiLlama connectivity |
| `/api/market/tokens` | GET | 200 + JSON array | GeckoTerminal connectivity |
| `/api/market/whales` | GET | 200 + JSON with `transfers` | Moralis connectivity |
| `/api/ai/insights` | GET | 200 + JSON with `insights` | Insights data available |
| `/api/chain/predictions` | GET | 200 + JSON | BSC RPC + contract reachable |

### Cron Job (AI Analysis)

Triggered via `GET /api/cron/analyze` with `Authorization: Bearer <CRON_SECRET>`.

Verify cron is running:
```bash
curl -s http://localhost:3000/api/cron/analyze \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CRON_SECRET"
```

Expected: `{"success": true, "insightCount": 3, "txHash": "0x..."}`

### Key Metrics to Watch

- Vercel Blob storage usage (insights stored as `insights.json` blob in production)
- BSC wallet balance (needs tBNB/BNB for gas)
- Moralis CU usage (40k/day free tier)
- GeckoTerminal rate limit (30 req/min)

## Common Issues and Fixes

### Server Won't Start

| Error | Cause | Fix |
|-------|-------|-----|
| `EnvHttpProxyAgent is not a constructor` | Node.js built-in undici missing class | Install `undici` npm package: `npm install undici` |
| `EADDRINUSE: address already in use :::3000` | Port occupied | `lsof -ti:3000 \| xargs kill -9` |
| `MODULE_NOT_FOUND` | Missing deps | `rm -rf node_modules && npm install` |

### API Routes Return Errors

| Error | Cause | Fix |
|-------|-------|-----|
| `fetch failed` on analyze | Proxy misconfigured for localhost | Ensure `NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1` in `.env.local` |
| `fetch failed` on external APIs | Behind proxy without config | Set `HTTPS_PROXY` and `NO_PROXY` in `.env.local` |
| 401 on `/api/ai/analyze` | Wrong CRON_SECRET | Match Bearer token to `.env.local` value |
| 500 on `/api/market/whales` | Invalid Moralis key | Verify `MORALIS_API_KEY` at moralis.io |
| Empty insights | AI analysis never triggered | `POST /api/ai/analyze` with Bearer token |

### Blockchain Issues

| Error | Cause | Fix |
|-------|-------|-----|
| `AGENT_PRIVATE_KEY not set` | Missing env var | Add to `.env.local` |
| `insufficient funds` | Wallet out of BNB | Get tBNB from [faucet](https://www.bnbchain.org/en/testnet-faucet) |
| `execution reverted: Not authorized` | Wrong wallet | Ensure `AGENT_PRIVATE_KEY` matches contract's `agentAddress` |
| Contract reads fail | Wrong contract address | Verify `NEXT_PUBLIC_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` matches deployed contract |

### Proxy Issues (Node.js 24)

Node.js 24's built-in undici does **not** include `EnvHttpProxyAgent`. The project installs `undici` from npm to get proxy support. The `src/instrumentation.ts` file configures the global fetch dispatcher.

If behind a proxy:
```bash
# .env.local
HTTPS_PROXY=http://127.0.0.1:1082
NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1
```

`EnvHttpProxyAgent` respects `NO_PROXY`, so localhost calls (used by the analyze route) bypass the proxy while external API calls go through it.

## Rollback Procedures

### Frontend Rollback (Vercel)

1. Go to Vercel dashboard > Deployments
2. Find the last working deployment
3. Click "..." > "Promote to Production"

### Smart Contract

The contract is immutable once deployed. To "rollback":

1. Deploy a new contract instance
2. Update `NEXT_PUBLIC_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` to the new address
3. Redeploy frontend
4. Old predictions remain on-chain at the old address

### Data Rollback

Insights are stored in **Vercel Blob** (production) or `data/insights.json` (local dev). Max 500 insights are retained.

**Production (Vercel Blob):**
```bash
# Delete the blob via Vercel dashboard or Vercel Blob API, then re-trigger:
curl -X POST https://your-app.vercel.app/api/ai/analyze \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CRON_SECRET"
```

**Local dev:**
```bash
rm data/insights.json
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/ai/analyze \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CRON_SECRET"
```

## Architecture Quick Reference

```
External APIs (DeFiLlama, GeckoTerminal, Moralis)
  -> Next.js API Routes (server, TTL cache)
    -> SWR Hooks (client, refresh intervals)
      -> React Components

POST /api/ai/analyze
  -> Fetch market data from own API routes
  -> Gemini AI generates insights
  -> Write prediction hashes on-chain (ChainPulseOracle)
  -> Save insights to data/insights.json
```

### SWR Refresh Intervals

| Hook | Endpoint | Interval |
|------|----------|----------|
| `useMarketData` | `/api/market/overview` | 60s |
| `useTokens` | `/api/market/tokens` | 120s |
| `useWhaleAlerts` | `/api/market/whales` | 60s |
| `useInsights` | `/api/ai/insights` | 120s |
| `usePredictions` | `/api/chain/predictions` | 120s |
